# First Journal Entry...
The Slightly Unsusual League of Legend Client User Experience
Luo Tommy 11/21/2024

This is the first journal extry of my user experience on the League of Legend game client, something that I use almost daily to play the game. I've decided to focus on this specifically because as of recently, there has been something very impactful towards my experience in using the client that I feel like is interesting to point out.
Today, in an attempt to get into a game lobby of League of Legend, I opened the client as usual and waitited for its occasional updates to go through after entering my user name and password and clicking "Login". Usually, this would be done within a few minutes and would open the client automatically once it is done. However, today's experience was different. Not only is the update bar stuck at 99% for the past hour, the client never threw out any messages or gave me any meaningful way of knowing if a glitch or error has occured. This made me think that the update system feels very **ineffective** to me, in the sense that something is clearly wrong with trying to update the client, but there are not even a message saying that there is an error and the progress bar just sits at 99%. There are no self diagnostics that checks what might be going wrong even when the client is stuck in 99% update for a long time which made me feel like my experience as a user was not cared for enough.
As a user of the client for almost a decade now, I know this is the usual glitch where you have to restart your client to fix as the client is **efficient** enought that it will take no longer than half an hour to complete any major updates if it is working properly. I tried restarting the client and the update went through this time. So all in all it is just a minor issue, but it made the whole process of just getting into the game feel a lot more tedious-having to restart and wait for everything to load into place- annoying at least.

https://www.google.com/imgres?q=league%20of%20legends%20bug%20loading%20screen&imgurl=https%3A%2F%2Fpreview.redd.it%2Fln8ozmymm1c81.png%3Fwidth%3D1289%26format%3Dpng%26auto%3Dwebp%26s%3D4cf25c75e83b97175e11460be1d7116a8e9ba1df&imgrefurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reddit.com%2Fr%2Fleagueoflegends%2Fcomments%2Fs5avla%2Fleague_of_legends_stuck_on_infinite_loading_screen%2F&docid=VCUU077GCkX1dM&tbnid=oIZubrpDiTf8nM&vet=12ahUKEwiCgPK057SKAxW_HjQIHRzFKLcQM3oECBsQAA..i&w=1289&h=719&hcb=2&ved=2ahUKEwiCgPK057SKAxW_HjQIHRzFKLcQM3oECBsQAA 

I have to say that I am suprised as this kind of bug has been known in the community for years and no one bothered to fix them. Even when the issue has been adressed in community forums, no one employees seemed to care.
I did some research about this problem and it appears to be caused by the way that the game client was built seperatly from the actual game itself, leading to the main server and the client not synching correctly occasionally, which caused the client to think that there are still updates to install even though it is already done.
From what I learned, the only way to completely solve this issue is to remake the client entirely and make it not relient on contacting main servers for updates, which I doubt is an easy operation or worth the cost.
